Oh,
about a year ago, we were approached by
representatives of the Snead family. Could you
spell that? S-N-E-A-D. Of Georgetown, Texas and
Austin. They are involved. as part owners of a
small short line railroad and are very interested
in the future of the railroad industry. And they
were looking for some way to
help, as it were, revitalize the railroad
industry in this country and thought, and I think
very wisely, that an educational institution
would be a place where one could get some leverage
So after some discussions, they decided to give us
an endowment. Actually, the Texas A&M
Development Foundation, strictly speaking,
they were given an endowment of somewhat over half
a million dollars. The purpose of this would be to
establish the Snead chair in railway engineering
in the civil engineering department. Now, the
funds... What we would like to do, and what the
purpose of the chair is, is to employ a professor
who is widely known in the railway industry to
establish a teaching and research program in the
department in railway engineering.
The research program, of course, would address
problems of the railway industry could be
economic problems, could be any kind of problem,
the teaching program would enable us to graduate
people who could go into the railway industry
educated in the most modern and up-to-date
engineering disciplines that impact or are
important to the railroads.
The purpose of the funds would be to augment the
individual's salary, giving the chaired
professor the time to develop these programs. As
you probably know, we have to justify all of the
salaries that we pay with state-appropriated
funds. And so if we are able to pay a portion of the
salary from other funds, then that give that
professor release time to do these other
activities which we think are important. So we're
in the process of searching for someone, but we've
had a problem. The railroad and railway industry
in one sense academically has been dormant for so
many years that finding people who are qualified
in all the senses of the word, that is who can work
with the railway industry, know the problems,
find out what the problems are, and then lead the
research and set up the academic program. And on
the other hand, can meet the qualifications for an
academic position. Those people are very few and
far between. And so we've so far not had a lot of
success in finding them. But we are continuing.
And in the meantime, we are going to attempt to set
up some other programs that will at least get us
started in this business while we continue our
search for a professor. Do railroads employ a lot
of civil engineers? Yes, civil and mechanical by
and large. There is, well for a long time there was
no program in railroad, no academic program in
railroad engineering anywhere except there was
one professor at the University of Illinois who
retired several years ago. Programs are now
beginning to come back in in railroads. People are
coming to the realization that for certain
commodities that railroads are by and large the
cheapest thing you possibly can do
as far as bulk commodities and also the
transportation system is in place all over the
country. It's about to fall apart in certain
places, but at least that we're not talking about
having to establish a brand new transportation
system. So with this, programs are beginning to
come back in at certain academic institutions.
And we think that that's appropriate, and we want
to get one going ourselves. So that's where we're
going with that. We want to continue our search for
the chair, for the person to occupy the chair, and
yet at the same time get a program started.
Is there anything else that we need to touch upon
before we close?
Well, I guess I can't think of anything. I think
you've had quite an inclusive list of questions
there. Well, I appreciate interviewing you.
Thank you. I appreciate your interest and wish you
the best in your activities. Thank you.